I was raised with three sisters and my nun was in the truth.
I remember sitting on the sofa and just talking about spiritual things with my nun.
And she taught us to appreciate any assignment that we had to see it as something very special.
Pioneering was my life.
Gilead to me was a way to give to others, to be very busy in service.
I pray to Jehovah I said I really want to go to Gilead.
But if it's possible to have a wife to an I just thought, boy are you pushy, you know?
And so, but Jehovah gave me that.
I went to Gilead and to my amacement.
This is the most lovely spiritual sister.
Students in the same class, Lois, I met her and was able to marry her one week after Gilead.
Arriving has a newlywed couple in a missionary home with seven other people.
It was quite daunting, but we didn't let that phases, we were on a honeymoon.
Columbia was a paradise spiritually.
We loved it so much.
This was the kind of life we wanted.
Lois was a great teacher in the ministry.
I always enjoyed working with her. She was actually a great support for me.
Obviously Columbia had its risks.
I remember in the mornings sometimes it got to the point where I would look at Lois and she would look at me and we'd just say,
but don't see in the paradise, you know.
Columbia became our home.
We traveled the length and breadth of the country in our different assignments.
We'd been over 20 years in Columbia when it became very evident that Lois's mom would need our care.
This of course would mean leaving our assignment.
It almost tore my heart apart to leave Columbia.
I felt I was abandoning so many privileges and my treasured assignment.
In the USA we were working as a team and I could see Lois really organized making the best of the situation.
Helping her mom was really the source in a way of her deep joy.
Helping others was just a way of life to Lois.
It doesn't matter what privilege you have, what responsibility, the true happiness is always found in giving.
Really, Lois got very ill.
Lois never cried about her illness or felt sorry for herself.
She always was focused on others and would give herself even within the pain of illness.
Now that Lois has passed by many times, think of her example.
It just motivates me to carry on.
Here at the Central America branch, I am surrounded by such a loving family.
I resolved when I went through this situation with losing my wife to find others that were in similar situations.
Maybe sit down for a coffee.
Just that fellow feeling, just being able to show interest and encourage another person is a great joy that I personally find one of the most helpful things to endure trials.